<intro photo>

There’s definitely a pattern in these projects. Do I need repetitive tasks to relax ? Do I need scaling up a simple concept until it becomes unreasonable ?
We go again with flipdots. I had a pile of 7-dots segments, with half-bridge integrated circuits to drive them.
<segment and divers IC photo>

Can we imagine a non-standard flipdots matrix? What about a ring instead of a rectangle?
With around 300 segments the angle between them drops below 2°, which is good enough to make the circle feel continuous and visually acceptable.
<drawing of segments to simulate angles image>

And it's now almost natural to see it as a clock.
<hand drawing concept image>

Designing the electronic board.
Let’s settle on 24 segments per board. This doesn’t fully use the FP2800a capabilities, but it keeps the board size and cost reasonable, and improves the refresh rate.
That still means 12 boards, for a 288 × 7 dot "matrix".
The way for the half bridge to work in matrix requires 2 diodes.
<driving single dot image>
The data bus of each FP2800a needs to be driven for every dot flip, we select a row, a column and the current direction. If we use shift registers and a decent refresh rate, it can result in quite a high data rate. Flipdots behave essentially like small solenoids, and will induce electrical noise.
I went for daisy-chained PIC microcontrollers to drive the two FP2800a per board.
<schematics image>
KiCad sessions were a bit challenging, especially working with angles. It is 4 layers boards, with board-to-board power and signals connectors. Coil-driving tracks avoid as much as possible the signal lines. And then comes the matrix routing.
<PCB image>
<soldering session photo>

PIC Software:
This part turned out to be more subtle than expected. A tricky 24-byte circular buffer had to be implemented in the PIC. The natural daisy-chain for SPI it only 1 byte buffered. At first the SPI interrupt code generated by MCC was too slow, so I had to optimize it to reach 100 kHz SPI clock.
I imagined a king of protocol for display data latching and configuration. Only 7 bits of each of the 24 bytes are used as it is 7 dots segments. The remaining bits are used for board configuration and a data checking byte. For example, the option bits allows to configure the flipping time (how long the coil receive current, from 0.1 to 1.5 uS), or if we force the driving of dots that are in theory already in the correct position. These parameters can be tweaked according to the refresh rate needed, and give space for experimentation.
The FP2800a consumes a few mA each. With 24 of them, this is not negligible. So the PIC powers them via a GPIO to save energy when idle.
A 5 ms timer is reset on every received SPI byte. If there is a pause of 5 ms or more, the data is latched and the dots are driven, this is a sort of soft framing mechanism.
<flowchart of the PIC code image>
<first single board drive GIF>

Powering and consumption:
One of the goals was to keep the clock completely wireless. As a clock, updates only happen once per minute, the average power consumption stays surprisingly low, making battery operation realistic. And the thing is big, there is enough space for several cells. I selected 5× 18650 Li-ion cells to get close the 24V needed to flip the dots. We need a 5S battery management board, a step-down module for 5V, and a step-up module 24V.
<battery in the case image>
There is a substantial difference between regulator modules, notably the idle current. I measured up to 12mA background current on cheap module. However, modules from Pololu consume less than 1mA.
<cheap and Pololu modules photo>
<full project diagram image>

Mechanical structure:
With this size and weight, 3D printed plastic blocks will lack rigidity. The back plane skeleton is a single aluminum plate, and was cut with a water jet.
<aluminium plate image>
<all boards fixed on the aluminium plate image>

Case:
The case in the other hand are 3D-printed blocks designed in Fusion360. I kept in mind the inevitable ‘partner aesthetic acceptance test’.
<case drawing image>
<full assembly image>

Functionalities:
The brain of the clock will be an ESP32, but we need a good low consumption board. With the new ESP32C6, there is no need for a serial to USB chip, lowering the consumption of development boards. The Xiao board looks perfect for this job.
So far, I have the following features:
- WiFi hotspot for setup from a computer or phone
- Time synchro once per day via NTP
- Night mode: dots updated only every 10 minutes for quieter nights
- Main battery monitoring with automatic shutdown
- A button to change mode
- A demo mode (for showing off)
The ESP32 stays in deep sleep most of the time to save power. Battery life so far is around 40 days.
<Xiao ESP32C6 photo>

Summary:
It was a long journey with ~12'000 solder joints (yes, twelve thousands, all done by hand — I love my Metcal iron), ~100 hours of 3D printing, and countless hours of design and debugging fun.
And for the aesthetic test? I’ll let you be the judge.
<youtube video and final project photo>

-----------------------------

youtube desc:
Battery-powered circular flipdot clock.

This project started with a simple idea: what if a flipdot display wasn’t rectangular but a ring ?

That quickly turned into a full design challenge involving:
- custom circular PCB
- daisy-chained PIC microcontrollers
- custom communication protocol
- battery-powered system

Battery powered flipdot ring specs:
- 288 segments (7 dots each) for a total of 2016 dots
- 12 custom boards (4-layer PCB) with a PIC16F15356 and 2 FP2800a
- One Xiao ESP32C6 for control and connectivity
- 5× 18650 Li-ion cells
- ~12,000 hand-soldered joints


Features:
- WiFi setup + NTP time sync
- low power operation (deep sleep)
- A demo mode :)

More details, schematics, and build log:
https://pierremuth.com



